If your exercise program is long,
if you spend a lot of hours in the gym,
your exercise program
probably sucks. And you could probably
do way better by switching to variable
resistance with a high intensity
approach.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering which
gives me a unique perspective on all
sorts of things sports performance
related. Today I want to talk about my
fitness journey and what I learned in my
fitness journey. I'm going to put this
picture up on the screen and we're going
to talk about what it was like going
through that first 2 years where I saw
the most gains. And And then after that,
I did something
pretty spectacularly different than I
did the first 2 years, which is when I
was developing the hypertrophy program.
I have since gone back and I'm now the
Westside Barbell Academy, the X3
Academy. So it's what Westside Barbell
teaches professional athletes so they
can use their X3 when they're working
out on the road. You know, professional
athlete typically doesn't stay in one
place cuz competitions happen all over
the world. So they need to be able to
take their workout wherever they go and
X3 is perfect for that. What happened
while I was going through this
transformation? So
first thing, I had been working for
years developing OsteoStrong. So
OsteoStrong is an incredible company.
There's 300 locations in 15 different
countries.
These are clinics that people go in and
are where they can treat bone loss. So
putting
very heavy loading in on the axis. So
you're really just loading the positions
you naturally absorb high impact forces.
120° angle from upper to lower arm, that
same geometry echoed through the legs,
the lower extremities, the spine. And so
that
we get the
emulation of high impact. It's the
benefit of high impact without the
risks. That's how that technology works.
Did that first and it really showed me
that high levels of loading at optimized
positions
really demonstrate
that we don't use
our musculature in physical training
nearly to the point where we could
because I'm seeing people able to create
2,000 lb of force in this format, just
just in this range of motion right here
for the purposes of bone loading. Now,
that's not going to build a lot of
muscle. It is going to have you recruit
better. Like you're going to activate
more muscle. So that that is a very
instantaneous benefit that people get
from that therapy very quickly. But when
you're training muscle, so not what
you'd be doing for
bone density, muscle requires
quite a bit of different stimulus. It's
still a high level of load, but there
needs to be repetitions and there needs
to be a full range of motion used so
that you're really activating all parts
of the target muscle. Through this
process, the first 2 years, I had a very
high intensity training approach. So and
as I'm sure most of you have been
following what I say about variable
resistance, the level of exhaustion, the
level of fatigue and stimulus that you
get when you do this is incredibly
profound. So you don't need more than
one set. So I grew very quickly, which
is why this is a very dramatic 2-year
adventure. I think in the last picture,
what I really did was drop a significant
amount of body fat for that picture. So
just so you know, really the between the
year 1 and year 2, it was it was more
body fat loss than it was muscle gain,
but the
high intensity approach was so effective
and it took very little time. At that
time, maybe 10 or 20 minutes 6 days a
week. Now I'm more like half an hour 4
days a week. So about the same amount of
volume just arranged a little bit
differently so I have a few extra rest
days also. Like if I have to take a
quick trip or something like that, I
don't necessarily need to bring the X3
with me. That's beneficial because as
far as the weight of your suitcase, my
X3 stuff took up like half the weight. I
can almost bring nothing with me or
otherwise I'd be paying
overweight charges on every bag, which I
basically do almost every trip and
that's nice when I don't need to do
that. But I have now since starting the
Westside Barbell program, gone back to
very abbreviated shorter workouts.
That's that's the reason I bring that
up. So in in the middle when I was
building the hypertrophy program, I I
hardly grew at all. And
I didn't really get stronger at all.
Like I was using the force bar and
testing and testing and testing.
It was for my strength, it was the worst
period, but I thought, well, you know, I
really want to give this volume thing a
shot. That's why I called it the
hypertrophy program because
muscle growth, I don't know if it's an
outright lie or if they're just wrong
and they don't realize it, but the idea
that counting your sets is more
important than just taking one set to
all out fatigue. Now there are some
reasons why you would like you would do
this with variable resistance, not with
weights though.
It's just safety cuz the chances of
hurting yourself are very high when
you're training for absolute maximum
strength and that's part of the reason
variable resistance is so important
because you can get the benefits of high
intensity training without the risks of
injury. So as soon as I stopped doing
the hypertrophy work and started working
with Craig Bongelli, who is the head of
education at Westside Barbell,
I went back to a much more abbreviated
high intensity style of approaching X3
and man, I started growing again. And
you guys who have been following me,
you've seen it and commented on it. I
think it's really important. Like
definitely if your exercise program is
long,
if you spend a lot of hours in the gym,
your exercise program
probably sucks. And you could probably
do way better by switching to variable
resistance with a high intensity
approach. You don't need to buy any of
my products to do this. You can just go
and watch old school Westside Barbell
videos and and use banding. I mean, it's
a pain in the ass to to do it without X3
makes it very convenient, but you don't
need X3 to necessarily do this. I
encourage everybody if you are training
with variable resistance, you are going
to be better. You're going to be bigger,
you're going to be stronger, you're
going to be faster, you will absolutely
dominate your peers who are training
with regular weights because regular
weights come with incredible
inefficiencies
that you will [music] leave in the
rearview mirror. I hope this helps. Ask
questions in the comments. See you guys
in the next one. If this video helped
you, I want you to subscribe and follow.
I'm going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights,
we've got the answer for you.
>> [music]